# Ice-Burg
### Sound Studies

## FAQs

#### What is the purpose of these studies?
By creating "prototypes" of the sounds in advance, I hope to give the team an early look at the final process, while I'm still working in a richer, higher-fidelity tool where sounds can be more easily tweaked graphically. I built these studies in Max/MSP, Pure Data's big brother.

#### How should we give feedback?
Firstly, read this document and listen to all sound samples. In many cases there are two options to then choose from.

In the following studies, I used two scales, E Neapolitan Major and E Enigmatic. I recommend we use the same scale for both the ambient/proximity sound and the facet sound to avoid musical clashes as the sculpture transitions from "ambient/proximity mode" to "facet interaction mode".

Secondly, I can most easily handle feedback like the below:
1. "I like Option 1 of the Facet sound, but I would like the sound to not have as much treble (or high end) or bass."

2. "The proximity sound seems kind of harsh. Can we mellow it out?"

#### Are there elements of this we can change in or closer to production?
Yes, I plan on putting the timing (like how often the ambient sound triggers, and how long it plays), the amplitude (the volume of different sounds), and the harmony (which scales are played) in settings files so we can alter them on the fly over SSH on the Raspberry Pis.

#### Will the production version sound different than these?
The biggest limitations will be due to the limitations of the Raspberry Pi itself. I expect a slightly higher signal to noise ratio, more limited dynamic range (soft vs loud), and of course less computational power. There is a level of finesse that may be missing in production, but my goal is 90% of the fidelity found here.

#### Why is everything in E?
E2 is 82.407 Hz, which is the lowest note found in these studies and close to the bottom frequency reproduce-able by our sound system. We may find in production that E2 feels muddy, and we can set a new bottom note accordingly.

## Ambient Sound

The ambient sound is made up of two chord fragments that play once every 10 to 20 seconds. I looked originally at pure, constant, ambient tones but my fear is that in locations like a student center that might make employees or studying students crazy - or blend completely into the background. These chord fragments give a sense of tonality but it's vague: musical but not like someone playing the piano.

#### Option 1:
[Ice-Burg Sound Study - Ambient Sound (in E Neapolitan Major)](https://clyp.it/3cxbvcp3)

This version is just the slightest bit uplifting, and isn't fatiguing to the ear.

#### Option 2:
[Ice-Burg Sound Study - Ambient Sound (in E Enigmatic)](https://clyp.it/qqfkvaw2)

This version sounds slightly more mysterious, and less clearly uplifting than Option 1.

## Proximity Sound
Proximity triggers both volume and harmonic complexity to the ambient sound. I'm expecting a lot of proximity on and off events so I created a smooth fade-in and fade-out.

I'm only showing one option here, but we can make this sound less or more harmonically rich, softer or louder.

[Ice-Burg Sound Study - Examples of Proximity Affecting Ambient Sound](https://clyp.it/14i1hz3d)

## Facet sound

The concept behind the facet sound is that each facet adds an additional harmonic or group of harmonics to a drone, so that it gets richer and louder as more people add their hands.

If everyone takes their hands off the sculpture, it will change the starting note, so as users put their hands back on the sculpture, it will move through the scale.

This adds a little musical interest to a common situation (someone putting one hand on and taking it off) without allowing users to play it like a musical instrument.

As the facets stack up you'll hear that the sheer intensity of harmonics begin to drown out the fundamental "note" underneath it.

#### Timeline
`0:00` - Facet studies begin by simulating a "touch on" and "touch off" event on each facet one after another.

`0:35` - Sequence then plays again using the correspondence sound.

`1:10` - Simulates a group of people each adding their hands to a facet, one by one.

`1:45` - Simulates a series of correspondence events, one by one.

_(Times are approximate)_

#### Option 1
[Ice-Burg Sound Study - Facet Interaction Sounds Option 1 (in E Neapolitan Major)](https://clyp.it/clcqbibw)

This uses Neapolitan Major, it has an ear-pleasing solidity to it that is rewarding when multiple users start touching the facets.

#### Option 2
[Ice-Burg Sound Study - Facet Interaction Sounds Option 2 (in E Neapolitan Major)](https://clyp.it/nyfey1lj)

Option 2 also uses Neapolitan Major, but the harmonics are brighter. (But it may sound more shrill than Option 1)

#### Option 3
[Ice-Burg Sound Study - Facet Interaction Sounds Option 3 (in E Enigmatic)](https://clyp.it/ns4st3nm)

And here is an example of the facet sound in E Enigmatic. Enigmatic sounds vaguer and more mysterious.

## Download Link
You can download these Clyp links individually, or download the files as 96k AIFFs from [WeTransfer](https://we.tl/XJhKVGPsHW)
